   176	Andreas Hansson <andreas.hanson@arm.com>
   139	Andreas Sandberg <Andreas.Sandberg@arm.com>
   129	Nilay Vaish <nilay@cs.wisc.edu>
    30	Ali Saidi <Ali.Saidi@arm.com>
    22	Steve Reinhardt <stever@gmail.com>
    15	Joel Hestness <jthestness@gmail.com>
     9	Sascha Bischoff <sascha.bischoff@arm.com>
     9	Tony Gutierrez <anthony.gutierrez@amd.com>
     8	Geoffrey Blake <geoffrey.blake@arm.com>
     6	Akash Bagdia <akash.bagdia@ARM.com>
     6	Ani Udipi <ani.udipi@arm.com>
     5	Dam Sunwoo <dam.sunwoo@arm.com>
     5	Lena Olson <leolson@google.com>
     5	Mitch Hayenga <mitch.hayenga@arm.com>
     4	Faissal Sleiman <Faissal.Sleiman@arm.com>
     4	Malek Musleh <malek.musleh@gmail.com>
     4	Neha Agarwal <neha.agarwal@arm.com>
     3	Chris Emmons <chris.emmons@arm.com>
     3	Gabe Black <gabeblack@google.com>
     2	Chander Sudanthi <chander.sudanthi@arm.com>
     2	Christian Menard <christian.menard@tu-dresden.de>
     2	Christopher Torng <clt67@cornell.edu>
     2	Deyaun Guo <guodeyuan@tsinghua.org.cn>
     2	Jason Lowe-Power <jason@lowepower.com>
     2	Lluís Vilanova <vilanova@ac.upc.edu>
     2	Matt Evans <matt.evans@arm.com>
     2	Matt Horsnell <matt.horsnell@arm.com>
     2	Michael Levenhagen <mjleven@sandia.gov>
     2	Prakash Ramrakhyani <prakash.ramrakhyani@arm.com>
     2	Stephan Diestelhorst <stephan.diestelhorst@arm.com>
     2	Timothy M. Jones <timothy.jones@arm.com>
     2	Uri Wiener <uri.wiener@arm.com>
     2	Yasuko Eckert <yasuko.eckert@amd.com>
     1	Amin Farmahini <aminfar@gmail.com>
     1	Andrea Pellegrini <andrea.pellegrini@gmail.com>
     1	Blake Hechtman <bah13@duke.edu>
     1	Brad Beckmann <brad.beckmann@amd.com>
     1	Dibakar Gope <gope@wisc.edu>
     1	Emilio Castillo <castilloe@unican.es>
     1	Eric Van Hensbergen <eric.vanhensbergen@arm.com>
     1	Gedare Bloom <gedare@rtems.org>
     1	Lluc Alvarez <lluc.alvarez@bsc.es>
     1	Marco Elver <Marco.Elver@ARM.com>
     1	Mrinmoy Ghosh <mrinmoy.ghosh@arm.com>
     1	Nathanael Premillieu <nathanael.premillieu@arm.com>
     1	Rene de Jong <rene.dejong@arm.com>
     1	Stan Czerniawski <stan.czerniawski@arm.com>
     1	Tao Zhang <tao.zhang.0924@gmail.com>
     1	Umesh Bhaskar <umesh.b2006@gmail.com>
     1	Xiangyu Dong <rioshering@gmail.com>
Andreas Hansson <andreas.hanson@arm.com> (176):
      mem: Fix a bug in the memory serialization file naming
      scons: Fix libelf linking errors when using clang/llvm
      ruby: Fix missing cxx_header in Switch
      mem: Add sanity check to packet queue size
      cpu: Fix the traffic gen read percentage
      config: Reduce DRAM controller regression traffic rate
      stats: Update DRAM regression stats to match new config
      dev: Fix the Pl111 timings by separating pixel and DMA clock
      scons: Add support for google protobuf building
      base: Add wrapped protobuf output streams
      mem: Add tracing support in the communication monitor
      base: Add wrapped protobuf input stream
      cpu: Encapsulate traffic generator input in a stream
      cpu: Add support for protobuf input for the trace generator
      cpu: Share the send functionality between traffic generators
      mem: Remove the joining of neighbouring ranges
      base: Encapsulate the underlying fields in AddrRange
      mem: Skip address mapper range checks to allow more flexibility
      mem: Tidy up bus addr range debug messages
      config: Do not use hardcoded physmem in fs script
      base: Simplify the AddrRangeMap by removing unused code
      config: Traverse lists when visiting children in all proxy
      mem: Add interleaving bits to the address ranges
      base: Add support for merging of interleaved address ranges
      mem: Merge ranges that are part of the conf table
      dev: Make the ethernet devices use a non-zero clock
      sim: Fatal if a clocked object is set to have a clock of 0
      scons: Remove stale compiler options
      scons: Enforce gcc >= 4.4 or clang >= 2.9 and c++0x support
      dev: Do not serialize timer parameters
      stats: Bump failing x86 regression stats
      scons: Address clang 3.2 compilation error
      scons: Disable protobuf if pkg-config and CheckLib fails
      stats: Fix naming (BPredUnit to branchPred) for 20.parser ARM o3
      mem: Separate out the different cases for DRAM bus busy time
      mem: Add DDR3 and LPDDR2 DRAM controller configurations
      stats: Update stats for regressions using SimpleDDR3
      mem: Add comments for the DRAM address decoding
      Ruby: Fix compilation errors on gcc 4.7 and clang 3.2
      mem: Tighten up cache constness and scoping
      mem: Ensure trace captures packet fields before forwarding
      base: Fix a bug in the address interleaving
      mem: Add predecessor to SenderState base class
      x86: Move APIC clock divider to Python
      sim: Make clock private and access using clockPeriod()
      mem: Add deferred packet class to prefetcher
      mem: Make packet bus-related time accounting relative
      mem: Change accessor function names to match the port interface
      mem: Enforce strict use of busFirst- and busLastWordTime
      scons: Fix up numerous warnings about name shadowing
      scons: Add warning for missing field initializers
      scons: Add warning for overloaded virtual functions
      scons: Add warning for overloaded virtual functions
      scons: Add warning for missing declarations
      scons: Add warning delete with non-virtual destructor
      scons: Unify the flags shared by gcc and clang
      scons: Fix warnings issued by clang 3.2svn (XCode 4.6)
      mem: Fix sender state bug and delay popping
      mem: Merge ranges in bus before passing them on
      mem: Merge interleaved ranges when creating backing store
      mem: Add support for multi-channel DRAM configurations
      mem: SimpleDRAM variable naming and whitespace fixes
      stats: Update stats to reflect SimpleDRAM changes
      mem: Add a method to build multi-channel DRAM configurations
      mem: Add check if SimpleDRAM nextReqEvent is scheduled
      x86: Make the table walker reset the packet delay
      ruby: Fix gcc 4.8 maybe-uninitialized compilation error
      base: Fix address range granularity calculations
      mem: Fix missing delete of packet in DRAM access
      cpu: Avoid including inorder TLBUnit to avoid gcc LTO bug
      cpu: Remove CpuPort and use MasterPort in the CPU classes
      mem: Add optional request flags to the packet trace
      mem: Add a generic id field to the packet trace
      mem: Introduce a variable for the retrying port
      mem: Separate waiting for the bus and waiting for a peer
      stats: Update stats to reflect bus retry changes
      stats: Update stats for cache retry event check
      util: Add a utility script for encoding packet traces
      util: Add a utility script for decoding packet traces
      stats: Bump the vortex stats to match latest behaviour
      dev: Fix a bug in the use of seekp/seekg
      stats: Update stats for ldr_ret_uop (changeset 35198406dd72)
      mem: Replace check with panic where inhibited should not happen
      mem: Add a WideIO DRAM configuration
      config: Add a mem-type config option to se/fs scripts
      cpu: Make the generators usable outside the TrafficGen module
      cpu: Use request flags in trace playback
      mem: More descriptive enum names for address mapping
      mem: Address mapping with fine-grained channel interleaving
      cpu: Fix TraceGen flag initalisation
      config: Added memory type to t1000 regression
      cpu: Make hash struct instead of class to please clang
      base: Avoid size limitation on protobuf coded streams
      util: Auto generate the packet proto definitions
      mem: Avoid explicitly zeroing the memory backing store
      mem: Adapt the LPDDR2 to match a single x32 channel
      mem: Add a LPDDR3-1600 configuration
      mem: Check for waiting state in bus draining
      mem: Use unordered set in bus request tracking
      mem: Tidy up a few variables in the bus
      mem: Separate the two snoop response cases in the bus
      mem: Make the buses multi layered
      mem: Make returning snoop responses occupy response layer
      cpu: Fold together the StateGraph and the TrafficGen
      cpu: Move traffic generator sending out of generator states
      cpu: Block traffic generator when requests have to retry
      cpu: Add request elasticity to the traffic generator
      cpu: Prune the stale TraceCPU
      mem: Fix MSHR print format
      mem: Spring cleaning of MSHR and MSHRQueue
      mem: Add static latency to the DRAM controller
      mem: Add bytes per activate DRAM controller stat
      mem: More descriptive DRAM config names
      stats: Update the stats to reflect bus and memory changes
      stats: Bump x86 stats
      mem: Remove CoherentBus snoop port unused private member
      mem: Remove a redundant heap allocation for a snoop packet
      base: Fix address range granularity calculation
      scons: Identify runs that fail and runs with stats differences
      mem: Cycles converted to Ticks in atomic cache accesses
      cpu: Consider instructions waiting for FU completion in draining
      mem: Align cache timing to clock edges
      mem: Fix CommMonitor style and response check
      mem: Tidy up the bridge with const and additional checks
      tests: Prune 00.gzip from the regressions
      config: Add a BaseSESystem builder for re-use in regressions
      config: Remove Clock parameter multiplication
      mem: Remove the cache builder
      stats: Update stats for monitor, cache and bus changes
      sim: Make MaxTick in Python match the one in C++
      scons: Use python-config instead of distutils
      mem: Set the cache line size on a system level
      config: Update script to set cache line size on system
      cpu: Fix a bug in the O3 CPU introduced by the cache line patch
      mem: Add an internal packet queue in SimpleMemory
      mem: Allow disabling of tXAW through a 0 activation limit
      mem: Warn instead of panic for tXAW violation
      config: Move the memory instantiation outside FSConfig
      alpha: Check interrupts before quiesce
      cpu: Fix timing CPU drain check
      mem: Perform write merging in the DRAM write queue
      mem: Use STL deque in favour of list for DRAM queues
      mem: Change AbstractMemory defaults to match the common case
      config: Command line support for multi-channel memory
      stats: Cumulative stats update
      base: Fix VectorPrint initialisation
      cpu: Fix timing CPU isDrained comment formatting
      scons: Enable build on OSX
      alpha: Move system virtProxy to Alpha only
      arch: Header clean up for NOISA resurrection
      cpu: Move the branch predictor out of the BaseCPU
      arch: Resurrect the NOISA build target and rename it NULL
      tests: Move ISA-independent tests to the NULL ISA
      util: Add class name to dot graph and output to svg
      util: Add colours to the dot output
      util: Add ini string as tooltip info in dot output
      sim: Fix clang warning for unused variable
      config: Add voltage domain to Ruby example scripts
      swig: Fix issue with circular import in 2.0.9/2.0.10
      swig: Warn on use of incompatible swig/gcc combinations
      mem: Fix scheduling bug in SimpleMemory
      ext: Fix fputils compiler flags to ensure ISO C99
      kvm: Only include KVM support for supported kernels
      stats: Bump pc-simple-timing-ruby stats
      build: Place proto output in the same directory, also for EXTRAS
      sim: Clarify the difference between tracing and debugging
      test: Use SimpleMemory for atomic full-system tests
      stats: Bump stats after shifting to SimpleMemory
      mem: Pick the next DRAM request based on bank availability
      mem: Less conservative tRAS in DRAM configurations
      mem: Add tRRD as a timing parameter for the DRAM controller
      mem: Add a simple adaptive version of the open-page policy
      mem: Fix the LPDDR3 page size
      mem: Fixes for DRAM stats accounting
      stats: Bump stats to match DRAM controller changes
      cpu: Fix Checker register index use

Andreas Sandberg <Andreas.Sandberg@arm.com> (139):
      tests: Create base classes to encapsulate common test configurations
      arch: Make the ISA class inherit from SimObject
      arm: Make ID registers ISA parameters
      arm: Fix DMA event handling bug in the PL111 model
      tests: Add support for skipping tests, skip EIO tests if not enabled
      arch: Fix broken M5VarArgsFault initialization
      scons: Whitelist useful environment variables
      mem: Remove the IIC replacement policy
      arch: Add support for invalidating TLBs when draining
      cpu: Check that the memory system is in the correct mode
      arch: Move the ISA object to a separate section
      cpu: Implement a flat register interface in thread contexts
      cpu: Initialize the O3 pipeline from startup()
      cpu: Unify SimpleCPU and O3 CPU serialization code
      cpu: Correctly call parent on switchOut() and takeOverFrom()
      cpu: Introduce sanity checks when switching between CPUs
      arm: Remove the register mapping hack used when copying TCs
      cpu: Remove unused params.hh header file in inorder CPU
      cpu: Rename defer_registration->switched_out
      sim: Remove unused variables
      tests: Update the ignore regexps to reflect the M5->gem5 name change
      o3 cpu: Remove unused variables
      cpu: Fix broken squashAfter implementation in O3 CPU
      arm: Fix draining of the pagetable walker when squashing
      arm: Invalidate cached TLB configuration in drainResume
      cpu: Fix O3 LSQ debug dumping constness and formatting
      cpu: Fix broken thread context handover
      cpu: Make sure that a drained timing CPU isn't executing ucode
      cpu: Make sure that a drained atomic CPU isn't executing ucode
      cpu: Rewrite O3 draining to avoid stopping in microcode
      mem: Fix guest corruption when caches handle uncacheable accesses
      cpu: Flush TLBs on switchOut()
      tests: Add CPU switching tests
      cpu: Unify the serialization code for all of the CPU models
      util: Fix stack corruption in the m5 util
      dev: Fix infinite recursion in DMA devices
      config: Don't call sys.exit in interactive mode in run()
      base: Fix broken IPython argument handling
      base: Add support for newer versions of IPython
      cpu: Add CPU metadata om the Python classes
      cpu: Make checker CPUs inherit from CheckerCPU in the Python hierarchy
      config: Cleanup CPU configuration
      config: Move CPU handover logic to m5.switchCpus()
      config: Remove O3 dependencies
      cpu: Refactor memory system checks
      sim: Add a system-global option to bypass caches
      arm: Create a GIC base class and make the PL390 derive from it
      arm: Don't export private GIC methods
      dev: Use the correct return type for disk offsets
      cpu: Document exec trace flags
      cpu: Fix state transition bug in the traffic generator
      scons: Check for known buggy version of SWIG (2.0.9)
      scons: Include flags required to link statically with Python
      scons: Don't explicitly add tcmalloc_minimal to LIBS
      scons: Avoid malloc/free compiler optimization when using tcmalloc
      scons: Try to use 'tcmalloc' before 'tcmalloc_minimal'
      x86: Revert [02321b16685f] which breaks m5ops on x86
      sim: Add helper functions that add PCEvents with custom arguments
      arm: Enable support for triggering a sim panic on kernel panics
      kvm: Basic support for hardware virtualized CPUs
      kvm: Avoid synchronizing the TC on every KVM exit
      config: Add a KVM VM to systems with KVM CPUs
      tests: Add support for testing KVM-based CPUs
      kvm: Add experimental support for a perf-based execution timer
      arm: Add a method to query interrupt state ignoring CPSR masks
      kvm: Add basic support for ARM
      kvm: Add support for state dumping on ARM
      sim: Add a helper function to execute pseudo instructions
      kvm: Add support for pseudo-ops on ARM
      sim: Add support for m5fail in pseudoInst()
      kvm: Make MMIO requests uncacheable
      kvm: Add checkpoint debug print
      kvm: Add a stat counting number of instructions executed
      arm: Make libm5 a dependency of the m5 utility
      arm: Fix compilation error in m5 utility
      arm: Add support for the m5fail pseudo-op
      kvm: Fix the memory interface used by KVM
      kvm: Dump state before panic in KVM exit handlers
      kvm: Add support for disabling coalesced MMIO
      dev: Clean up MC146818 register (A & B) handling
      dev: Add support for disabling ticking and the divider in MC146818
      kvm: Add a call to thread->startup() in startup()
      sim: Add debug output when executing pseudo-instructions
      kvm: Add handling of EAGAIN when creating timers
      kvm: Allow architectures to override the cycle accounting mechanism
      config: Add missing CPUs to --restore-with-cpu
      base: Make the Python module loader PEP302 compliant
      arch: Create a method to finalize physical addresses  in the TLB
      dev: Clarify why updates are delayed when the MC14818 is activated
      cpu: Add support for scheduling multiple inst/load stop events
      sim: Revert [34e3295b0e39] (sim: Fix early termination in mult...)
      x86: Fix bug when copying TSC on CPU handover
      kvm: Maintain a local instruction counter and update totalNumInsts
      kvm: Don't handle IO and execute in the same tick
      kvm: Separate host frequency from simulated CPU frequency
      kvm: Add more VM stats
      x86: Fix the flag handling code in FABS and FCHS
      x86: Add helper functions to access rflags
      kvm: Use the address finalization code in the TLB
      x86: Make fprem like the fprem on a real x87
      x86: Make the boot state VMX compliant
      x86: Initialize the MXCSR register
      x86: Fix loading of floating point constants
      x86: Add support for maintaining the x87 tag word
      cpu: Remove unused getBranchPred() method from BaseCPU
      x86: Expose the interrupt vector in faults
      x86: Add support for checking the raw state of an interrupt
      x86: Expose the raw hash map of MSRs
      sim: Fix undefined behavior in the pseudo-inst interface
      x86: Add support routines to convert between x87 tag formats
      kvm: Fix a case where the run timers weren't armed properly
      kvm: Correctly handle the return value from handleIpr(Read|Write)
      kvm: Initial x86 support
      kvm: Add x86 segment register verification to help debugging
      kvm: x86: Fix segment registers to make them VMX compatible
      x86: Add limited support for extracting function call arguments
      ext: Include libfputils
      x86: Add support routines to load and store 80-bit floats
      kvm: FPU synchronization support on x86
      config: Add a 'kvm' CPU alias
      kvm: Add support for thread-specific instruction events
      x86: Fix re-entrancy problems in x87 store instructions
      x86: Add support for loading 32-bit and 80-bit floats in the x87
      x86: Add support for FLDENV & FNSTENV
      x86: Add support for FXSAVE, FXSAVE64, FXRSTOR, and FXRSTOR64
      arch: Add support for m5ops using mmapped IPRs
      x86: Add support for m5ops through a memory mapped interface
      ext: Update fputils to rev 52b6190b4e
      scons, kvm: Check for the presence of POSIX timers
      stats: Update x86 stats after x87 fixes
      kvm: Service events in the instruction event queues
      base: Fix a potential race in PollQueue::setupAsyncIO
      mem: Use a flag instead of address bit 63 for generic IPRs
      mem: Rename the ASI_BITS flag field in Request
      kvm: Fix latency calculation of IPR accesses
      kvm: Remove the unused hostFreq member from BaseKvmCPU
      kvm: Set the perf exclude_host attribute if available
      base: Clean up signal handling
      base: Fix race in PollQueue and remove SIGALRM workaround

Nilay Vaish <nilay@cs.wisc.edu> (129):
      regressions: stats update due to decoder changes
      x86: Changes to decoder, corrects 9376 The changes made by the changeset 9376 were not quite correct. The patch made changes to the code which resulted in decoder not getting initialized correctly when the state was restored from a checkpoint.
      base simple cpu: removes commented out code about cache ops
      Ruby: use ClockedObject in Consumer class Many Ruby structures inherit from the Consumer, which is used for scheduling events. The Consumer used to relay on an Event Manager for scheduling events and on g_system_ptr for time. With this patch, the Consumer will now use a ClockedObject to schedule events and to query for current time. This resulted in several structures being converted from SimObjects to ClockedObjects. Also, the MessageBuffer class now requires a pointer to a ClockedObject so as to query for time.
      Ruby: remove reference to g_system_ptr from class Message This patch was initiated so as to remove reference to g_system_ptr, the pointer to Ruby System that is used for getting the current time. That simple change actual requires changing a lot many things in slicc and garnet. All these changes are related to how time is handled.
      regressions: update stats due to changes in ruby obj hierarchy
      x86: implement fabs, fchs instructions
      x86: implements emms instruction
      x86: implements fsin, fcos instructions
      x86 cpuid: enable clflush Note that clflush is only being enabled. It is not implemented in actual. A warning is printed if the cpu encounters a clflush instruction. We need to enable this instruction in cpuid since JRE 1.7 tests for it.
      x86 regressions: updates due to new instructions and cpuid
      ruby: remove calls to g_system_ptr->getTime() This patch further removes calls to g_system_ptr->getTime() where ever other clocked objects are available for providing current time.
      x86, cpu: corrects 270c9a75e91f, take over decoder on cpu switch The changes made by the changeset 270c9a75e91f do not work well with switching of cpus. The problem is that decoder for the old thread context holds state that is not taken over by the new decoder.
      regressions: update stats due to branch predictor changes The actual statistical values are being updated for only two tests belonging to sparc architecture and inorder cpu: 00.hello and 02.insttest. For others the patch updates config.ini and name changes to statistical variables.
      ruby: remove call to curCycle in panic() The panic() function already prints the current tick value. This call to curCycle() is as such redundant. Since we are trying to move towards multiple clock domains, this call will print misleading time.
      ruby: remove get_time() This patch replaces get_time() in *.sm files with curCycle() which is now possible since controllers are clocked objects.
      merged 798c2cec8e37 and e96ff45795bc
      ruby: correct computation of number of bits required for address The number of bits required for an address was set to floorLog2(memory size). This is correct under the assumption that the memory size is a power of 2, which is not always true. Hence, floorLog2 is being replaced with ceilLog2.
      sim: remove unused struct priority_compare
      ruby: record fully busy cycle with in the controller This patch does several things. First, the counter for fully busy cycles for a controller is now kept with in the controller, instead of being part of the profiler. Second, the topology class no longer keeps an array of controllers which was only used for printing stats. Instead, ruby system will now ask each controller to print the stats. Thirdly, the statistical variable for recording how many different types were created is being moved in to the controller from the profiler. Note that for printing, the profiler will collate results from different controllers.
      ruby: modifies histogram add() function This patch modifies the Histogram class' add() function so that it can add linear histograms as well. The function assumes that the left end point of the ranges of the two histograms are the same. It also assumes that when the ranges of the two histogram are changed to accomodate an element not in the range, the factor used in changing the range is same for both the histograms.
      base: add some mathematical operators to Cycles class
      ruby: replaces Time with Cycles in many places The patch started of with replacing Time with Cycles in the Consumer class. But to get ruby to compile, the rest of the changes had to be carried out. Subsequent patches will further this process, till we completely replace Time with Cycles.
      ruby: replace Time with Cycles in Message class Concomitant changes are being committed as well, including the io operator<< for the Cycles class.
      ruby: Replace Time with Cycles in SequencerMessage
      ruby: replace Time with Cycles in Memory Controller
      ruby: replace Time with Cycles in MessageBuffer
      ruby: convert block size, memory size to unsigned
      ruby: replace Time with Tick in replacement policy classes
      ruby: replace Time with Cycles in garnet fixed and flexible
      ruby: replace Time with Cycles (final patch in the series) This patch is as of now the final patch in the series of patches that replace Time with Cycles.This patch further replaces Time with Cycles in Sequencer, Profiler, different protocols and related entities.
      ruby: enable multiple clock domains This patch allows ruby to have multiple clock domains. As I understand with this patch, controllers can have different frequencies. The entire network needs to run at a single frequency.
      ruby: MI protocol: add a missing transition The transition for state MII and event Store was found missing during testing. The transition is being added. The controller will not stall the Store request in state MII
      regressions: update stats due to changes to ruby
      ruby: remove unused variable m_print_config in class Topology
      slicc: remove unused variable message_buffer_names
      sim: remove duplicate check on stack size
      ruby: garnet: fixed: implement functional access
      ruby: remove the functional copy of memory in se mode This patch removes the functional copy of the memory that was maintained in the se mode. Now ruby itself will provide the data.
      regressions: stats updates due to no physmem in ruby
      x86: implement some of the x87 instructions This patch implements ftan, fprem, fyl2x, fld* floating-point instructions.
      regressions: x86: stats updates due to new x87 insts
      ruby: set: corrects csprintf() call introduced by 7d95b650c9b6
      ruby: network: move routers from topology to network
      ruby: convert Topology to regular class The Topology class in Ruby does not need to inherit from SimObject class. This patch turns it into a regular class. The topology object is now created in the constructor of the Network class. All the parameters for the topology class have been moved to the network class.
      ruby: connect two controllers using only message buffers This patch modifies ruby so that two controllers can be connected to each other with only message buffers in between. Before this patch, all the controllers had to be connected to the network  for them to communicate with each other. With this patch, one can have protocols where a controller is not connected to the network, but communicates with another controller through a message buffer.
      ruby: move stall and wakeup functions to AbstractController These functions are currently implemented in one of the files related to Slicc. Since these are purely C++ functions, they are better suited to be in the base class.
      slicc: remove check if the L1Cache has a sequencer
      ruby: keep histogram of outstanding requests in seq The histogram for tracking outstanding counts per cycle is maintained in the profiler. For a parallel implementation of the memory system, we need that this histogram is maintained locally. Hence it will now be kept in the sequencer itself. The resulting histograms will be merged when the stats are printed.
      ruby: remove unsued profile functions
      ruby: consumer: avoid using receiver side clock A set of patches was recently committed to allow multiple clock domains in ruby. In those patches, I had inadvertently made an incorrect use of the clocks. Suppose object A needs to schedule an event on object B. It was possible that A accesses B's clock to schedule the event. This is not possible in actual system. Hence, changes are being to the Consumer class so as to avoid such happenings. Note that in a multi eventq simulation, this can possibly lead to an incorrect simulation.
      ruby: message buffer node: used Tick in place of Cycles The message buffer node used to keep time in terms of Cycles. Since the sender and the receiver can have different clock periods, storing node time in cycles requires some conversion. Instead store the time directly in Ticks.
      ruby: message buffer: remove _ptr from some variables The names were getting too long.
      ruby: message buffer: correct previous errors A recent set of patches added support for multiple clock domains to ruby. I had made some errors while writing those patches. The sender was using the receiver side clock while enqueuing a message in the buffer. Those errors became visible while creating (or restoring from) checkpoints. The errors also become visible when a multi eventq scenario occurs.
      ruby: slicc: set sender, receiver clock objs for optional queue
      regressions: updates to config.ini for ruby tests
      config: return exit event instead of cause changeset: a4739b6f799d made some changes that where an exit event should have been returned in place of exit cause. This patch corrects the error.
      regressions: update due to cache latency fix
      regressions: update eio stats due to cache latency fix
      x86: create space in bios memory map As of now, we mark the top 1MB of memory space as unusable. Part of it is actually usable and is required to be marked so by some of the newer versions of linux kernel. This patch marks the top 639KB as usable. This value was chosen by looking at QEMU's output for bios memory map.
      x86: changes to apic, keyboard It is possible that operating system wants to shutdown the lapic timer by writing timer's initial count to 0. This patch adds a check that the timer event is only scheduled if the count is 0.
      o3cpu: commit: changes interrupt handling Currently the commit stage keeps a local copy of the interrupt object. Since the interrupt is usually handled several cycles after the commit stage becomes aware of it, it is possible that the local copy of the interrupt object may not be the interrupt that is actually handled. It is possible that another interrupt occurred in the interval between interrupt detection and interrupt handling.
      regressions: updates due to changes to o3 cpu, x86 memory map
      config: ruby network test: remove piobus check
      ruby: moesi cmp directory: add copyright notice
      Merged c22628fa2564 and 2285b98847d7
      ruby: patch checkpoint restore with garnet Due to recent changes to clocking system in Ruby and the way Ruby restores state from a checkpoint, garnet was failing to run from a checkpointed state. The problem is that Ruby resets the time to zero while warming up the caches. If any component records a local copy of the time (read calls curCycle()) before the simulation has started, then that component will not operate until that time is reached. In the context of this particular patch, the Garnet Network class calls curCycle() at multiple places. Any non-operational component can block in requests in the memory system, which the system interprets as a deadlock. This patch makes changes so that Garnet can successfully run from checkpointed state.
      x86, stats: updates due to lret bugfix
      ruby: mesi coherence protocol: remove unused state M_MB
      x86: regressions: add switcher full test
      configs: ruby: pass the option use_map to directory controller The option was not being passed to directory controllers for the protocols MOESI_CMP_token and MOESI_CMP_directory. This was resulting in an error while instantiating the directory controller as it tries to access the wrong type of memory.
      ruby: moesi cmp directory: cosmetic changes Updates copyright years, removes space at the end of lines, shortens variable names.
      ruby: moesi cmp token: cosmetic changes Updates copyright years, removes space at the end of lines, shortens variable names.
      ruby: mesi cmp directory: cosmetic changes Updates copyright years, removes space at the end of lines, shortens variable names.
      ruby: moesi hammer: cosmetic changes Updates copyright years, removes space at the end of lines, shortens variable names.
      stats: updates statistics for ruby regressions
      x86: add op class for int and fp microops in isa description Currently all the integer microops are marked as IntAluOp and the floating point microops are marked as FloatAddOp. This patch adds support for marking different microops differently. Now IntMultOp, IntDivOp, FloatDivOp, FloatMultOp, FloatCvtOp, FloatSqrtOp classes will be used as well. This will help in providing different latencies for different op class.
      x86: mark instructions for being function call/return Currently call and return instructions are marked as IsCall and IsReturn. Thus, the branch predictor does not use RAS for these instructions. Similarly, the number of function calls that took place is recorded as 0. This patch marks these instructions as they should be.
      x86, regressions: updates stats This is due to op class, function call, walker patches.
      config: add atomic cpu to X86_MESI_CMP_directory build options There is some problem with the way listing cpu options right now. Since Ruby uses the options variable, this variable has to be created in the config file that runs the fs test for x86 and mesi cmp directory combination. While creating the variable, some error is occurs due to the way list of cpu types is now created. Hence, we need to compile all the cpu models.
      stats: allow printing vectors on a single line This patch adds a new flag to specify if the data values for a given vector should be printed in one line in the stats.txt file. The default behavior will be to print the data in multiple lines. It makes changes to print functions to enforce this behavior.
      ruby: remove undefined functions in Address class
      ruby: stats: use gem5's stats for cache and memory controllers This moves event and transition count statistics for cache controllers to gem5's statistics. It does the same for the statistics associated with the memory controller in ruby.
      ruby: remove periodic event from Profiler The Profiler class does not need an event for dumping statistics periodically. This is because there is a method for dumping statistics for all the sim objects periodically. Since Ruby is a sim object, its statistics are also included.
      ruby: remove several unused variables in Profiler This patch removes per processor cycle count, histogram for filter stats, histogram for multicasts, histogram for prefetch wait, some function prototypes that do not have definitions.
      stats: updates due to changes to ruby Ruby's controller statistics have been mostly moved to stats.txt now. Plus stats.txt for solaris/t1000-simple-atomic and arm/20.parser are also being updated.
      config: Do not instantiate membus when using ruby This patch moves the instantiation of system.membus in se.py to the area of code where classic memory system has been dealt with. Ruby does not require this bus and hence it should not be instantiated.
      Added tag stable_2013_06_16 for changeset 07352f119e48
      ruby: remove the three files related to profiling This patch removes the following three files: RubySlicc_Profiler.sm, RubySlicc_Profiler_interface.cc and RubySlicc_Profiler_interface.hh. Only one function prototyped in the file RubySlicc_Profiler.sm. Rest of the code appearing in any of these files is not in use. Therefore, these files are being removed.
      ruby: profiler: lots of inter-related changes The patch started of with removing the global variables from the profiler for profiling the miss latency of requests made to the cache. The corrresponding histograms have been moved to the Sequencer. These are combined together when the histograms are printed. Separate histograms are now maintained for tracking latency of all requests together, of hits only and of misses only.
      ruby: mesi cmp directory: separate actions for external hits This patch adds separate actions for requests that missed in the local cache and messages were sent out to get the requested line. These separate actions are required for differentiating between the hit and miss latencies in the statistics collected.
      ruby: moesi cmp directory: separate actions for external hits This patch adds separate actions for requests that missed in the local cache and messages were sent out to get the requested line. These separate actions are required for differentiating between the hit and miss latencies in the statistics collected.
      stats: updates due to changes to stat collection in ruby
      ruby: check for compatibility between mem size and num dirs The configuration scripts provided for ruby assume that the available physical memory is equally distributed amongst the directory controllers. But there is no check to ensure this assumption has been adhered to. This patch adds the required check.
      ruby: network: remove reconfiguration code This code seems not to be of any use now. There is no path in the simulator that allows for reconfiguring the network. A better approach would be to take a checkpoint and start the simulation from the checkpoint with the new configuration.
      configs: rearrange the available options in Options.py It also changes the instantiation of physmem in se.py so as to make use of the memory size supplied by the mem_size option.
      ruby: append transition comment only when in opt/debug
      regressions: update a couple of configs The configs for pc-simple-timing-ruby, t1000-simple-atomic had not been updated correctly in the patch 6e6cefc1db1f.
      regressions: update a couple stats.txt The statistics for 30.eio-mp, pc-simple-timing-ruby tests are being updated to incorporate the changes due to recent patches.
      x86: add tlb checkpointing This patch adds checkpointing support to x86 tlb. It upgrades the cpt_upgrader.py script so that previously created checkpoints can be updated. It moves the checkpoint version to 6.
      ruby: slicc: move some code to AbstractController Some of the code in StateMachine.py file is added to all the controllers and is independent of the controller definition. This code is being moved to the AbstractController class which is the parent class of all controllers.
      ruby: slicc: remove double trigger, continueProcessing These constructs are not in use and are not being maintained by any one. In addition, it is not known if doubleTrigger works correctly with Ruby now.
      ruby: add option for number of transitions per cycle The number of transitions per cycle that a controller can carry out is a proxy for the number of ports that a controller has. This value is currently 32 which is way too high. The patch introduces an option for the number of ports and uses this option in the protocol files to set the number of transitions. The default value is being set to 4. None of the se regressions change. Ruby stats for the fs regression change and are being updated.
      stats: update ruby.stats, config.ini files for x86 fs test
      ruby: converts sparse memory stats to gem5 style
      stats: adds a Formula operator for division
      ruby: network: shorten variable names
      ruby: network: removes reset functionality
      ruby: remove undefined message size type This message size type does not work well with one of the statistical variables. It also seems unnecessary.
      ruby: profiler: removes function resourceUsage()
      ruby: network: correct naming of routers
      ruby: network: convert to gem5 style stats
      stats: ruby: updates due to recent changes.
      stats: add operator= for DataWrapVec class
      stats: update sparc fs due to recent changes to memory class.
      x86: enables lstat and readlink syscalls
      config: set cwd for processes in se.py
      config: correct example ruby scripts A couple of recent changesets added/deleted/edited some variables that are needed for running the example ruby scripts. This changeset edits these scripts to bring them to a working state.
      Added tag stable_2013_10_14 to the changeset 6a043adb1e8d
      sim: correct ticksToCycles() function.
      stats: updates due to changes to ticksToCycles()
      util: update checkpoint aggregation script The checkpoint aggregation script had become outdated due to numerous changes to checkpoints over the past couple of years.  This updates the script.  It now supports aggregation for x86 architecture instead of alpha.  Also a couple of new options have been added that specify the size of the memory file to be created and whether or not the memory file should be compressed.
      cpu: call BaseCPU startup() function in o3 cpu
      sim: reset stats after startup Currently statistics are reset after the initial / checkpoint state has been loaded. But ruby does some checkpoint processing in its startup() function. So the stats need to be reset after the startup() function has been called. This patch moves the class to stats.reset() to achieve this change in functionality.
      ruby: mesi: remove owner and sharer fields from directory tags
      ruby: declare variables to be unsigned in Address.hh
      ruby: slicc: replace max_in_port_rank with number of inports
      ruby: fix bugs in mesi cmp directory protocol This patch fixes couple of bugs in the L2 controller of the mesi cmp directory protocol.
      stats: updates due to bug fixed in mesi coherence protocol

Ali Saidi <Ali.Saidi@arm.com> (30):
      cache: add note about where conflicts are handled
      tests: Always specify memory mode in every test system.
      cpu: rename the misleading inSyscall to noSquashFromTC
      o3: Fix issue with LLSC ordering and speculation
      stats: update stats for previous changes.
      stats: update stats for previous six changes
      config: Fix issue with changeset: a4739b6f799d.
      cpu: Fix a livelock in the o3 cpu.
      cpu: fix case with o3 cpu blocking and unblocking decode in cycle
      ARM: Fix an issue with clang generating wrong code.
      cpu: include set in o3/commit_impl.
      arm: fix some fp comparisons that worked by accident.
      stats: update regressions for o3 changes in renaming and translation.
      stats: more zizzer stats fun
      config: Fix --prog-interval command line option
      ARM: fix some cases where instructions that write to fp reg 15 are accidently branches.
      cpu: fix a switching issue with the o3 cpu.
      stats: update patches for branch predictor and fetch updates.
      cpu: fix a switching issue with the o3 cpu.
      stats: Update stats for O3 switching fix.
      scons: ammend swig warning error to version 2.0.10 as well
      ARM: Fix configuration files for bare-metal binaries.
      dev: Allow additional UART interrupts to be set
      config: Fix memtest example script
      arm, config: Fix a small issue with the dtb file being specified
      mem: Make MemoryAccess flag more verbose
      cpu: Fix O3 uncacheable load that is replayed but misses the TLB
      arm: Fix a GIC mask register bug
      cpu: Fix O3 issuse with load+barrier instructions.
      arm: fix m5ops binary for ARM and add m5fail.

Steve Reinhardt <stever@gmail.com> (22):
      scons: don't die on warnings in swig-generated code
      Updating EIO regression reference outputs for new stats.
      devices: make more classes derive from BasicPioDevice A couple of devices that have single fixed memory mapped regions were not derived from BasicPioDevice, when that's exactly the functionality that BasicPioDevice provides.  This patch gets rid of a little bit of redundant code by making those devices actually do so.
      dev/arm: get rid of AmbaDev namespace
      dev: consistently end device classes in 'Device'
      dev: make BasicPioDevice take size in constructor
      util/regress: set --no-lto on regressions
      stats: update eio stats
      tests: update reference outputs
      cpu: clean up architectural register classification
      cpu/inorder: merge register class enums
      cpu/o3: clean up physical register file
      cpu/o3: clean up scoreboard object
      isa: clean up register constants
      cpu: rename *_DepTag constants to *_Reg_Base
      cpu/o3: clean up rename map and free list
      scons: fix minor update-ref bug in regressions
      ruby: eliminate non-determinism from ruby.stats output
      test: update stats
      tests: suppress output on switcheroo tests
      sim: simulate with multiple threads and event queues This patch adds support for simulating with multiple threads, each of which operates on an event queue.  Each sim object specifies which eventq is would like to be on.  A custom barrier implementation is being added using which eventqs synchronize.
      python: don't die on assignment to cloned object

Joel Hestness <jthestness@gmail.com> (15):
      O3 IEW: Make incrWb and decrWb clearer
      Ruby System, Cache Recorder: Use delete [] for trace vars
      Ruby: Order profilers based on version
      Ruby: Add field to slicc machine for generic type
      Ruby: Delete packet requests during warmup
      Ruby: Fix RubyPort evict packet memory leak
      Configs: Fix handling of maxtick and take_checkpoints
      stats: Bump Ruby stats for new changesets
      ruby: MessageBuffer: Remove unused m_size variable
      Configs: Fix up maxtick and maxtime
      ruby: Statically allocate stats in SimpleNetwork, Switch, Throttle
      config: Initialize and check cpt_starttick
      cpu: Dynamically instantiate O3 CPU LSQUnits
      ruby: Fix Topology throttle connections
      configs: Fix ruby_fs.py cache line size

Sascha Bischoff <sascha.bischoff@arm.com> (9):
      stats: Fix swig wrapping for Tick in stats
      base: Add warn() and inform() to m5.utils for use from python
      mem: Fix SenderState related cache deadlock
      cpu: Fix bug when reading in TrafficGen state transitions
      cpu: Check that minimum TrafficGen period is less than max period
      stats: Remove printing of SparseHist total
      stats: Fix issue when printing 2D vectors
      cpu: Fix TrafficGen trace playback
      mem: Add PortID to QueuedMasterPort constructor

Tony Gutierrez <anthony.gutierrez@amd.com> (9):
      cache: remove drainManager because it's not used
      ext lib: add libfdt to enable flattened device tree support
      loader: add a flattened device tree blob (dtb) object
      options: add command line option for dtb file
      rcs scripts: remove bbench.rcS
      cpu: remove local/globalHistoryBits params from branch pred
      arm: use -march when compiling m5op_arm.S
      sim: fix event priority name for debug-start option
      cpu: allow the fetch buffer to be smaller than a cache line

Geoffrey Blake <geoffrey.blake@arm.com> (8):
      cpu: Fix rename mis-handling serializing instructions when resource constrained
      cpu: Avoid duplicate entries in tracking structures for writes to misc regs
      config: Fix for port references generated multiple times
      config: Fix ommission of number base in ethernet address param
      config: Fix handling of parents for simobject vectors
      base: Add support for ipv6 into inet.hh/inet.cc
      dev: Fix race conditions in IDE device on newer kernels
      dev: Add support for MSI-X and Capability Lists for ARM and PCI devices

Akash Bagdia <akash.bagdia@ARM.com> (6):
      config: Remove redundant explicit setting of default clocks
      config: Add a CPU clock command-line option
      config: Add a system clock command-line option
      config: Rename clock option to Ruby clock
      sim: Add the notion of clock domains to all ClockedObjects
      power: Add voltage domains to the clock domains

Ani Udipi <ani.udipi@arm.com> (6):
      mem: Add tTAW and tFAW to the SimpleDRAM model
      mem: Add tRAS parameter to the DRAM controller model
      mem: Schedule time for DRAM event taking tRAS into account
      mem: Fix DRAM bank occupancy for streaming access
      mem: Use the same timing calculation for DRAM read and write
      mem: Make tXAW enforcement less conservative and per rank

Dam Sunwoo <dam.sunwoo@arm.com> (5):
      cpu: generate SimPoint basic block vector profiles
      sim: separate nextCycle() and clockEdge() in clockedObjects
      util: Streamline .apc project convertsion script
      dev: Add option to disable framebuffer .bmp dump in run folder
      sim: added option to serialize SimLoopExitEvent

Lena Olson <leolson@google.com> (5):
      ruby: restrict Address to being a type and not a variable name Change all occurrances of Address as a variable name to instead use Addr. Address is an allowed name in slicc even when Address is also being used as a type, leading to declarations of "Address Address". While this works, it prevents adding another field of type Address because the compiler then thinks Address is a variable name, not type.
      ruby: fix slicc compiler to complain about duplicate symbols
      ruby: Fix prefetching for MESI_CMP_Directory
      ruby: fix typo in MOESI_CMP_token protocol
      cpu: Accurately count idle cycles for simple cpu

Mitch Hayenga <mitch.hayenga@arm.com> (5):
      mem: Fix use-after-free bug
      mem: Make LL/SC locks fine grained
      arm: add access syscall for ARM SE mode
      mem: Fix cache latency bug Fixes a latency calculation bug for accesses during a cache line fill.
      sim: Fix two bugs relating to software caching of PageTable entries.

Faissal Sleiman <Faissal.Sleiman@arm.com> (4):
      cpu: Put in assertions to check for maximum supported LQ/SQ size
      cpu: Change IEW DPRINTF to use IEW debug flag
      cpu: Removing an unused variable in rename
      cpu: Construct ROB with cpu params struct instead of each variable

Malek Musleh <malek.musleh@gmail.com> (4):
      ruby sequencer: converts cycles to ticks in deadlock panic() This patch converts the panic() print outs in the Sequencer::wakeup() call from ruby cycles to Ticks(). This makes it easier to debug deadlocks with the ProtocolTrace flag so the issue time indicated in the panic message can be quickly searched for.
      config: move ruby objects under ruby_system in obj hierarchy This patch moves the contollers to be children of the ruby_system instead of 'system' under the python object hierarchy. This is so that these objects can inherit some of the ruby_system's parameter values without resorting to calling a global system pointer during run-time.
      ruby: add stats to .sm files, remove cache profiler This patch changes the way cache statistics are collected in ruby.
      ruby: slicc: fix error msg in TypeFieldMemberAST.py

Neha Agarwal <neha.agarwal@arm.com> (4):
      mem: Fix for 100% write threshold in DRAM controller
      mem: Just-in-time write scheduling in DRAM controller
      mem: Unify request selection for read and write queues
      mem: Adding stats for DRAM power calculation

Chris Emmons <chris.emmons@arm.com> (3):
      config:  Replace second keyboard with a mouse.
      ARM: Postpones creation of framebuffer output file until it is actually used.
      ARM: Add support for HDLCD controller for TC2 and newer Versatile Express tiles.

Gabe Black <gabeblack@google.com> (3):
      SPARC: Keep a copy of the current ASI in the decoder.
      X86: Move address based decode caching in front of the predecoder. The predecoder in x86 does a lot of work, most of which can be skipped if the decoder cache is put in front of it.
      Decoder: Remove the thread context get/set from the decoder.

Chander Sudanthi <chander.sudanthi@arm.com> (2):
      ARM: pl111/LCD framebuffer checkpointing fix
      ARM: add support for TEEHBR access

Christian Menard <christian.menard@tu-dresden.de> (2):
      x86: increment the stack pointer in lret inst The 'lret' instruction reloads instruction pointer and code segment from the stack and then pops them. But the popping part is missing from the current implementation. This caused incorrect behavior in some code related to the Fiasco OS. Microops are being added to rectify the behavior of the instruction.
      x86: Implementation of Int3 and Int_Ib in long mode

Christopher Torng <clt67@cornell.edu> (2):
      mips: Floating point convert bug fix
      sim: Add support for dynamic frequency scaling This patch provides support for DFS by having ClockedObjects register themselves with their clock domain at construction time in a member list. Using this list, a clock domain can update each member's tick to the curTick() before modifying the clock period.

Deyaun Guo <guodeyuan@tsinghua.org.cn> (2):
      base: load weak symbols from object file Without loading weak symbols into gem5, some function names and the given PC cannot correspond correctly, because the binding attributes of unction names in an ELF file are not only STB_GLOBAL or STB_LOCAL, but also STB_WEAK. This patch adds a function for loading weak symbols.
      loader: Load weak symbols for function tracing

Jason Lowe-Power <jason@lowepower.com> (2):
      Ruby: Fix typo in Slicc if-statement AST error
      Ruby: More descriptive message buffer connection fatal

Lluís Vilanova <vilanova@ac.upc.edu> (2):
      util: add m5_fail op.
      util: add writefile to m5 util program for x86

Matt Evans <matt.evans@arm.com> (2):
      arm: Add a 'clear PPI' method to gic_pl390
      dev: Add 'OSC' oscillator sys control reg support to VersatileExpress

Matt Horsnell <matt.horsnell@arm.com> (2):
      o3: fix tick used for renaming and issue with range selection
      cpu: add consistent guarding to *_impl.hh files.

Michael Levenhagen <mjleven@sandia.gov> (2):
      x86: enable gettimeofday and getppid system calls
      x86: corrects vsyscall address for gettimeofday The vsyscall address for gettimeofday is 0xffffffffff600000ul. The offset therefore should be 0x0 instead of 0x410. This can be cross checked with the file sysdeps/unix/sysv/linux/x86_64/gettimeofday.c in source of glibc.

Prakash Ramrakhyani <prakash.ramrakhyani@arm.com> (2):
      mem: Reorganize cache tags and make them a SimObject
      mem: Add privilege info to request class

Stephan Diestelhorst <stephan.diestelhorst@arm.com> (2):
      mem: De-virtualise interfaces in the CoherentBus
      mem: Add "const" attribute to Packet getters

Timothy M. Jones <timothy.jones@arm.com> (2):
      branch predictor: move out of o3 and inorder cpus This patch moves the branch predictor files in the o3 and inorder directories to src/cpu/pred. This allows sharing the branch predictor across different cpu models.
      cpu: Let python scripts obtain the number of instructions executed

Uri Wiener <uri.wiener@arm.com> (2):
      mem: Adding verbose debug output in the memory system
      mem: Add basic stats to the buses

Yasuko Eckert <yasuko.eckert@amd.com> (2):
      cpu: add a condition-code register class
      arch/x86: add support for explicit CC register file

Amin Farmahini <aminfar@gmail.com> (1):
      mem: Replacing bytesPerCacheLine with DRAM burstLength in SimpleDRAM

Andrea Pellegrini <andrea.pellegrini@gmail.com> (1):
      o3 cpu: fix zero reg problem There was an issue w/ the rename logic, which would assign a previous physical register to the ZeroReg architectural register in x86.  This issue was giving problems for instructions squashed in threads w/ ID different from 0, sometimes allowing non-mispredicted instructions to obtain a value different from zero when reading the zeroReg.

Blake Hechtman <bah13@duke.edu> (1):
      ruby: fixes functional writes to RubyRequest The functional write code was assuming that all writes are block sized, which may not be true for Ruby Requests. This bug can lead to a buffer overflow.

Brad Beckmann <brad.beckmann@amd.com> (1):
      ruby: removed the very old double trigger hack

Dibakar Gope <gope@wisc.edu> (1):
      ruby: mesi coherence protocol: invalidate lock The MESI CMP directory coherence protocol, while transitioning from SM to IM, did not invalidate the lock that it might have taken on a cache line. This patch adds an action for doing so.

Emilio Castillo <castilloe@unican.es> (1):
      ruby: Fixed a deadlock when restoring a checkpoint with garnet This patch fixes a problem where in Garnet, the enqueue time in the VCallocator and the SWallocator which is of type Cycles was being stored inside a variable with int type.

Eric Van Hensbergen <eric.vanhensbergen@arm.com> (1):
      arm: Accomodate function name changes in newer linux kernels

Gedare Bloom <gedare@rtems.org> (1):
      x86: Squash outstanding walks when instructions are squashed. This is the x86 version of the ARM changeset baa17ba80e06. In case an instruction has been squashed by the o3 cpu, this patch allows page table walker to avoid carrying out a pending translation that the instruction requested for.

Lluc Alvarez <lluc.alvarez@bsc.es> (1):
      ruby: set SenderMachine in messages of MOESI_CMP_directory This patch adds missing initializations of the SenderMachine field of out_msg's when thery are created in the L2 cache controller of the MOESI_CMP_directory coherence protocol. When an out_msg is created and this field is left uninitialized, it is set to the default value MachineType_NUM. This causes a panic in the MachineType_to_string function when gem5 is executed with the Ruby debug flag on and it tries to print the message.

Marco Elver <Marco.Elver@ARM.com> (1):
      config: Fix mem-type option not used in ruby_fs script This fixes missing mem-type arguments to makeLinuxAlphaRubySystem and makeLinuxX86System after a recent changeset allowing mem-type to be configured via options missed fixing these calls.

Mrinmoy Ghosh <mrinmoy.ghosh@arm.com> (1):
      arm: fix a page table walker issue where a page could be translated multiple times

Nathanael Premillieu <nathanael.premillieu@arm.com> (1):
      arm: set ldr_ret_uop as conditional or unconditional control This patch adds a missing flag to the ldr_ret_uop microop instruction. The flag is added when the instruction is used, not directly in the constructor of the instruction.

Rene de Jong <rene.dejong@arm.com> (1):
      mem: Cancel cache retry event when blocking port

Stan Czerniawski <stan.czerniawski@arm.com> (1):
      build: Enable color diagnostics in clang by preserving TERM.

Tao Zhang <tao.zhang.0924@gmail.com> (1):
      sim: Fix  early termination in multi-core simulation under SE mode.

Umesh Bhaskar <umesh.b2006@gmail.com> (1):
      debug : Fixes the issue wherein Debug symbols were not getting dumped into trace files for SE mode

Xiangyu Dong <rioshering@gmail.com> (1):
      mem: Add cache class destructor to avoid memory leaks

